+++
date = "2017-05-17T14:29:58-04:00"
title = "Learn the industry by following 3GPP"
draft = true
tags = ["Communications"]
categories = ["Miscellany"]
+++

## What is 3GPP

### Derivation 

3GPP indicates "The 3rd Generation Partnership Project". 
It is kind of an alliance which unites it members to produce the Reports and Specifications for technologies that they care about.

The original scope of 3GPP (1998) was to produce Technical Specifications and Technical Reports 
for a 3G Mobile System based on evolved GSM core networks and the radio access technologies that they support. 

After a significant success, 3GPP continues to produce Reports and Specifications for 4G and 5G.


### Member

3GPP has two kinds of partners (members), Organizational Partners and Market Representation Partners

Organizational Partners are essentially regional standards institutions.
They determine the general policy and strategy of 3GPP and produce the Reports and Specifications.
Right now there are seven telecommunications standard development organizations 
(ARIB, ATIS, CCSA, ETSI, TSDSI, TTA, TTC) joined as organizational partners. 
CCSA represents China Communications Standards Association. 

Market Representation Partners can be invited by the Organizational Partners to take part in 3GPP activities.
They provide information about market requirements, but do not have the capability and authority to 
define or publish standards within the 3GPP scope.


### Working flow

3GPP specifications and studies are discussed by members in Working Groups (WG) and at the Technical Specification Group (TSG) level.

Each TSG has a particular area of responsibility for the Reports and Specifications. 
The Working Groups, within the TSGs, meet regularly and come together for their quarterly TSG Plenary meeting. 
The Reports will be released in the meeting

The three Technical Specification Groups (TSG) in 3GPP are:

* Radio Access Networks (RAN),
* Services & Systems Aspects (SA),
* Core Network & Terminals (CT)
 
---
## Why is 3GPP important?

The organizational partners of 3GPP are regional standards institutions. 
Therefore the report produced by 3GPP will be finalized as the real standard in each region. 

The organizational partners usually consist of three parties, infrastructure vendors like Huawei and Ericsson, 
terminal designer and manufacturer like Qualcomm and Samsung, and telecommunications operator like CMCC and Verizon. 
The extensive involvement accredit the decision made by 3GPP. 


---


## How to follow the step of 3GPP?

In each TSG Plenary meeting, every work group discuss their own topics. 
Companies offer their proposals for discussion and the final decision will be record in a technical report. 
All reports will finally form the specification. All documents can be found at http://www.3gpp.org/ftp/. 

For channel coding, it belongs to RAN and work group 1. Therefore, you need to enter the folder "tsg_ran" and "WG1_RL1". 
Then you can find all documents produced at different meeting. For example the folder "TSGR1_87" contains all record in the 87th meeting.
Inside the folder, you will find 5 other folders. "Docs" contains the proposals of each company. 
"Report" contains the summary of that meeting which includes the name list, schedule and the final decision.  

It is better to read the schedule first and find the proposals you are interested. 

